---
layout: post
title:  "Shtn - Satan in tarot and Kabbalah"
date:   2023-03-05 02:30:19 +0100
---

- Shin Teth Nun, 300+9+50 = 359.
- 359 as making the point, extending, extending, rejecting, being pointed, having thorns.
- Using the technique of articulation 359 can be grouped into 35 and 9. The theosophical extension of 35 is 630, value of the word Seraphim. Seraphim are the highest class of angels. 9 is the value of Teth, meaning serpent. The extension of 9 is 45, value of Adam and Homo in Latin Cabala Simplex. This suggestion indicates that the word Satan contains the whole genetic story, with Adam, the Angel and the serpent.
- The three cards that form the word Satan are 20, 8 and 13. Total 41.
- 41 is the value of:
  1. mother
  2. separate
  3. limit
- The extension of 41 is 861, as "Gift of Yah"
- Satan is a separative, limiting but also maternal power. Mother, the symbol of [[Binah]], is seen from a certain perspective as a giver of death because by giving birth to man, she exposes him to the mortal travail of life, exhibits him to transience. Likewise [[Binah]] receives the luminous influence of [[Chokmah]] and limits it within the form. Here it is that in the tarot [[The Devil]] is represented by Capricorn and Saturn. However, this limitation is, in its ultimate development, a gift of Yah, a name associated with [[Chokmah]]. 
- ShTN has value 359, like the word *maschach*, meaning *consecrate*, but also like the words *chamesh*, five, like the senses that create the illusion of separateness, and the interesting *shemittah*, *pay a debt*. Five is also the number of man, and this may make us wonder whether it is the satan who is paying the debt or it is us. There is also a correlation here between the contraction of debt and consecration, as if this fate befell us were a blessing.
  - The extension of 20 is 210, such as:
  1. imposing a penalty (which is done when a sentence is passed; connection with [[Judgment]])
  2. sinking, being uncappable.
- The extension of 8 is 36, as in the words:
  1. shine
  2. the palace of the Sun
  3. Eloha, name given to [[Geburah]]
- The extension of 13 is 91, as:
  1. angel
  2. faithfulness, truth, amen
  3. tree
- The development of the judgment/judgment against Satan was the imposition of a penalty, and his becoming unsearchable, because he is impervious to what martinists call the good intellect.
- In Luke 10:12 Satan is compared to the thunderbolt, which is a metaphor for the power of the serpent, or Great Magical Agent that is tamed into [[Force]] by the female figure. This is the serpent (teth) who can be both tempter and savior. It is the agent of our liberation. The thunderbolt that comes from heaven is esh-hashamaim, the fire of heaven. This name is related to [[The Tower]], which represents the archetype of Mars, inherent in the extension of the number 8. The development of the operation of The Force has precisely to do with the redirection for evolutionary purposes of the martial force represented by the lion, a force that, if not understood, becomes the fiacola that in The Devil burns empty, causing us to remain in the illusion of appearances. The end of La Torre's operation is the reversal of our conception regarding the position of our ego within the universal picture.
- Another interesting reading, this time of an ideogrammatic character, of Satan we find by combining the three magical images of the three letters that make up its word: shin, the tooth, teth, the snake, nun, the fish, representing death.
  We begin by anticipating the relationship between the fish and death. The fish is a type of animal that thrives in a dimension in which human beings are unable to survive. Conversely, exposed to the play of air, the fish dies. He lives in water, and the astral plane is referred to in some cultures as the liquid world, just as the experience of astral light is compared by some to immersion in a liquid light.
  When the snake sinks its jaws (teeth) into its prey it causes paralysis. Paralysis is the immobility of the physical body, a necessary condition for the experience of samadhi. In the tarot, samadhi is an experience associated with Mem, and it is in the water that fish live. Christ, according to an ancient hyerogram, was called *Ictus*, which means *fish* in Greek. We overcome Satan -- that is, we change our perception of his role in our lives -- when we experience the unity of life and the inner fire (shin) that animates the cosmos. 

Translated with www.DeepL.com/Translator (free version)